---
layout: post
title:  "What Does Garblemasher Even Mean?"
date:   2015-04-17
categories: mozilla
---
A lot of people have asked me what the title of my blog means, and it’s kind of
a simple explanation. But first, a brief history. During Summer 2014, I decided
I would spend a lot of time with Mozilla. After getting a job at a tutoring
company, I had to quit because it was not compatible with my marching band
schedule. The problem was how I was going to pay for my car insurance and gas,
so my parents offered me a “sponsored internship.” I was to put in at least 15
hours a week throughout the summer, volunteering with Mozilla.

While I was working on a project, Rebecca Billings and I were working on a
really tough issue with a problematic pull request. After a long struggle to
find the solution, I got it. In a mad frenzy of typing characters, I typed
something along the lines of “garbelshmashers rbillings, I got it!”

When creating my blog name, I tried to think of something creative. Something
original that no one had though of before. I felt like it needed to be something
that had a story behind it and was really unique to me. After members of my team
at Mozilla kept talking about it, I decided to take it for a spin. However,
“Garbelshmashers” isn’t the easiest thing to spell and I was worried it would
be too hard to remember. So I cleaned it up a little bit and made it easy to
sound out. Something that would sound good at a conference where people would
remember how to spell it later. So I eliminated some letters and got
“garblesmasher.” Now you know.

Tl;Dr: In a mad frenzy of keyboard pushing in excitement after solving a hard
problem at Mozilla, I came up with a word and cleaned it up a bit to turn it
into this.
