---
layout: post
title:  "Why Twitter Should Keep the 140 Character Limit"
date:   2015-10-06
categories: current-events
---
Recently, I’ve seen a lot of articles and headlines reading things like “For
Twitter to survive, they need to abolish the character limit.” Now I haven’t
been in the world of tech as long as these journalists have, and I’m no expert
on the metrics of networks like Facebook versus Twitter in relation to their
character limits, but I firmly believe they should keep the limit, and here’s
why.

When Twitter was founded in 2006, it’s key features and selling points were its
brevity of content, ability to get news out quickly, and its ability in allowing
people to communicate ideas efficiently. The 140 character limit forces us to
think about our words and think about what we want to say, only including the
most important parts. Even in my AP US History class, we used a tweet as an
example of our short answer responses. We were told to pretend we were tweeting
because in doing so, we were forced only include the most important parts in the
most efficient way possible.

You can look at other social networks and you are able to easily identify why
Twitter is so attractive to millions of people. I don’t use Facebook anymore for
the sole reason that I don’t appreciate having to scroll through a plethora of
posts that are practically essays, discussing issues that only cause anger,
tension, and frustration. We’ve all seen those posts with those people. Your
crazy uncle may be ranting about the right to own his 200 AK-47s, or pictures of
Donald Trump captioned with something insightful he said (I couldn’t find any
examples).

Twitter doesn’t have the same issue. People have 140 characters to make their
point. There’s no room to attack people personally or go on and on about the
same topic never introducing any more valuable points or ideas.

Not only does it allow for an absence of repeating points and redundant rants,
but Twitter allows the media to quickly tweet updates and breaking news
efficiently. Like my previous argument, no one is going to want to read an
entire news article. Tweeting something brief allows people to grasp the idea
and move on through the rest of their feed.

Abolishing the 140 character limit will only turn Twitter into Facebook, or help
us, Google+. To maintain its identity, and keep its user base of celebrities,
teens, and adults, it needs to maintain its identity and features that keep it
unique. There’s a reason teenagers don’t use Facebook anymore. Don’t let Twitter
fall into the same trap.
