---
layout: post
title:  "First Release of Terml.io"
date:   2015-05-29
categories: terml.io
---
Today, Terml.io was released, which was a huge milestone for me in my
development career. Never before have I programmed something so large scale
where I had to keep track of what I was developing, when I was going to push it,
and finally when I release it to the public. I’m especially excited for this
release because I believe that this service will help thousands of students
everywhere with their education, helping them create quality definitions.

Terml.io searches for and retrieves quality definitions for each term the user
inputs. They can either copy and paste the terms, or type them in individually.
This makes it very efficient for students and teachers given that once they open
their electronic copy of flashcard terms, all they have to do is remove the
ordered numbers and paste them in.

Originally, I was going to charge students, either a monthly fee, or something
similar to a school lunch account where they would buy a certain amount of terms
and could reload them at any time. However, I read an article written by Dave
Margulius, the CEO of Quizlet on his blog, detailing why educational software
should be free for all and inspired me to make Terml.io free. In the future, I
may implement a premium version with extra features, but until then, it’s free
to everyone. ~~To help pay for the cost of the domain and other expenses, I have
implemented a Donate option.~~ The donation feature was removed with the launch of 
Premium accounts.

I truly believe that Terml.io will make a difference in students’ lives and
cannot wait to see the effect and impressions it will make. After many long
nights and stressful coding sessions, I’m proud to say our first release is out,
so go check it out for yourself at [http://terml.io](https://terml.io).
