---
layout: post
title:  "My Take on Drones"
date:   2015-04-21
categories: current-events
---
Every day I hear another story on the news of a drone launch gone bad, or a
drone being used for amazing purposes, so I thought I would give some insight
on how I feel about the growing technology and its potential uses.

### Surveillance

The issue of privacy seems to be the number one concern among citizens around
the world about drones and private activity, and it should be. It’s no
coincidence that in-browser privacy features are on the rise and that millions
in the US feel victimized after Snowden leaked the NSA’s surveillance practices.
Drones expose an entirely new dimension of this continuing debate about privacy.

Given that drones now have the ability to follow people, take pictures, and
take video, this opens up a whole new area that can be used to the government’s
advantage in counter-terrorism operations and threats. However, it becomes the
same debate surrounding the Patriot Act – when do preventive measures become
too much?

This argument really comes down to who you’re talking to. If I work for the
government, I am most likely going to support this decision to use these for
surveillance purposes, given that it helps me achieve my goals within my agency.
If I don’t work for the government, I am going to be extremely worried about the
new information that can be collected about me and the government now more than
ever watching over my shoulder.

My answer: Drones being used for surveillance, whether for government or private
investigating purposes infringe upon the right to privacy granted to people in
the United States.

### Recreation

I have seen some pretty cool videos of people flying their drones around the
park, or making some really awesome film with them. However, this presents an
obvious safety risk to people in the area. Drones have the potential to lose
connection and fall to meet their demise, or the pilot could lose control of the
drone. And what happens to the people walking below? Blade meets fragile skull
does not bode well for the public image of drones.

My answer: Although drones are fun to fly and watch, they not only become a
distraction in public parks, but also a safety hazard, whether it opens up the
medium of transporting explosives, or just the blades coming too close to other
unsuspecting passersby.

### Science

Lately, I have read some really interesting articles surrounding the use of
drones in a scientific setting, from monitoring oceans to observing the
environment, and an increasingly popular use of humanitarian aid. Despite the
popular vision of drones as flying vehicles, oceanographers are using them as
floating torpedo-like instruments that can send pings to the ocean floor and map
it, and use other instruments on board to measure oxygen levels, plankton, and
other things like that.

National parks around the world are beginning to use drones as an effective
solution to combat poaching in their parks, providing live video feed and
leading authorities to violators of the law. This has proven to be effective in
combatting this destructive action and allowed for the greater protection of
animals across the world.

What I thought was an original idea of mine had also been progressing through
other people’s minds as well, and now the use of drones to help in humanitarian
aid is growing. Organizations are now able to use drones to deliver “care
packages” to unsafe disaster areas, or survey the damage to determine which
course of action to take in helping save the stranded people.

My answer: This is the greatest possible use for drones in my opinion, allowing
for oceanographic research, monitoring the environment, and potentially being
used for humanitarian aid issues.

### Commercial Use

This is one of the most popular topics surrounding the controversy over the
legality of drones. We have seen this with Amazon and other delivering
companies. However, there are skeptics of the system that have the fear of
safety (similar to recreational use) and  are worried about shotgun-toting
people trying to bring the drones down.

There is also the fear of the possibility of theft. Because drones are not very
secure, it would be very possible to either re-route one and steal the drone and
the goods, or reach up and grab your neighbor’s new Kindle. And to combat this
solution, the drones would need to fly higher, but the you have personal
aircraft and commercial aircraft – something the FAA has struggled to come up
with a solution for.

My answer: At this point in time, no company has found a viable solution towards
how to distribute products or services through drones. Plus, avoiding
unsatisfied trigger-happy shotgun-wielding citizens would make for a dangerous
and costly outcome. So no. Sorry Amazon.
